Project Proposal
-----------------
There has been revolutionary advancements in Voice Recognition technology, with products such as Siri to softwares such as Dragon and even Google developing chrome to make it native in their web browser. However, despite these advancements, it has not been able to empower everyone equally, leaving a group of people behind.

People sufferring from mutism have always found it challenging to communicate. Many of them learn sign language in order to communicate more effectively. However, as sign language is not a universally known language, these people have no choice but to resort to using the pen and paper and writing out the message they wish to convey. Not only does this cause great inconvenience, but it too results in an inefficient usage of time.

However, just less than a year ago, Leap Motion, Inc released a new revolutionary product named Leap Motion which, using IR technology, is able to detect hands, fingers and finger-like objects in a specific space. Leap Motion is able to not only detect and read the 3-Dimensional coordinates of hands, fingers and finger-like objects, but it is also able to interpret that into intelligent information such as the objects's velocity, palm's and finger's directions, the curvature of the hand, gestures, and much more. Furthermore, the Leap Motion is a tiny device, half the size of a credit card and about as thick as a whiteboard marker.

Using this device, a program can be written such that the Leap Motion, embedded into a device which is worn over the neck, can detect the person's hand movements and translate that directly into text which can be displayed on that device as well as read out via a speed synthesizer. The person can then communicate to people via this device. Like most language recognition programs, can learn and modify itself such that it will be able to personalize its interpretation to the user so as to translate the user's message more accurately. Furthermore, if the user does not wish to stick to the conventional sign language, the user can map custom hand signs to words.

However, this program will be too ambitious for a three-week project. As such, I am aiming to build a basic foundation which can be expanded in the future. I aim to create a program which will be able to interpret a list of one-handed signs which does not involve the curvature of the hand into a set list of words. These signs will mainly involve variations in which set of fingers are protuding out of a fist. This program will also allow you to add, edit and delete the signs and their corresponding words from the database.

This program will run on the computer and will require the Leap Motion device connected to the computer and pointing horizontally instead of its conventional upwards orientation. This program will require the use of the Leap Motion Python module, as well as the sqlite3 module for data storage.